Think Big
Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.
•	Take a radical approach and risks when necessary, always questioning traditional assumptions in pursuit of the biggest and best idea?
•	Create a gutsy mission that employees can be inspired by and get behind; provide direction for how to get there and explain how everything fits into the long-term plan?
•	Continually communicate the big picture and mission to the team in a manager that gets employees excited (as a result, employees want to get out of bed and come to work each day)?
•	Actively explore new ideas from team members, encouraging risk taking when appropriate?
•	Translate broader mission into big, hairy ideas and tactics in your own work?
•	Ask questions to get a sense of direction and confirm how work fits into the short-and long-term picture
•	Hungrily accept the challenge to create the best idea/solution and take risks?
 
Interview Questions
1	Give me an example of a radical approach to a problem you proposed. What was the problem and why did you feel it required a completely different way of thinking about it? Was your approach successful?
S: When I was creating a security system I realized the current approach was going to stop working in about a year due to a limitation on the number of values we could store. T: I needed to find a resolution that was scalable, even though it would set back our project and we would miss an important deadline. A: I created a new approach that continues to work today, based on a binary array where each bit in the array was a Role Based Access Control flag of on or off. This resulted in a much more flexible and future proof system for checking and stacking role based access control. It's also much faster with a binary XOR operation to check if many roles at once exist. R: While the project did hit a minor setback, we were able to create a much more robust and tested system based on mathematical outcomes, vs. if/then logic checks throughout the system.
2	How do you drive adoption for your vision/ideas? How do you know how well your idea or vision has been adopted by other teams or partners? Give a specific example highlighting one of your ideas.
S: Driving adoption of ideas starts with a win/win proposition that proves something will be better than a current or an alternative approach. T: Adoption will fail without buy in, and buy in is easiest when the win/win is visual and understood by both parties. A: Talk is cheap here, and in the name of "biased for action" it's important to follow-up with other teams and partners to ensure they are in fact following through with commitments. I would heavily avoid waiting until the deadline to check in on completion. Other teams and partners have their own priorities that will often delay execution on new or third party ideas. R: I recently convinces a team to build on my system rather than build their own. This took a little hand holding, but I was able to quickly prove a few win/win scenarios that let them move faster with less risk than building it themselves. Even after we agreed, I had regular check-ins to see if they were stuck or needed any assistance to stay on track.
3	Tell me about a time you were working on an initiative or goal and saw an opportunity to do something much bigger than the initial focus.
S: I spent 3 weeks building a keynote demo for a large conference, and I was unable to provide the source code as examples to the audience. T: How could I get work like this into the customers hands to prove the solution worked, but better yet: How could I get this presentation / demo into the hands of other presenters where they could redeliver the content to a new audience? A: Instead of building the demo for myself, I build the demo for someone else to deliver. This means I needed to document success and setup for another person. R: Once the first external party was setup to deliver the demo, Adding the next parties were much easier. I was able to take a single demo and have it delivered to dozens of audiences, instead of just a single presentation. L: This was actually the beginning of me creating a whole new team, which would in turn create a new way of building content for Microsoft.
4	Tell me about a time you looked at a key process that was working well and questioned whether it was still the right one? What assumptions were you questioning and why? Did you end up making a change to the process?
S: At Microsoft, we have so many people building content for customers. A huge number of products, and many varieties of content. Documentation vs. Presentation vs. How Do I materials are constantly being created.
T: Is this the right way? Should content somehow be consolidated and refined but the same team of subject matter experts? Could content from one team, be reused, instead of reinvented, by another team?
A: As a test, I create a virtual teams of 5 products, that were previously unknown to each other. These teams had very different focus and audience segments, but at the same time, shared a common goal around product documentation.
R: Every one of the content members across all the virtual teams reported back with success. In some cases, they were able to lean on each other’s perspectives to build better content. In other cases, they were able to reuse content scenarios, creating an easy to follow customer journey.
Learning: In this case, I didn’t execute any work. Instead I was matchmaker to about 50 people.
1	Tell me about a time you took a big risk - what was the risk, how did you decide to do it and what was the outcome?
a	I am taking a big risk right now :) Opening up to the unknown to check on new opportunities. I think I have a very good 360 degree open mind to consider risks
b	Every company I ever created was a risk. Some of these proved extremely valuable, while others provided value to the users, but did not offer a large enough financial goal to continue.
S: In one instance I took a big risk closing down a product that had revenue. Why close down something that is paying the bills? In 2010 I decided to close down and sell everything that would pave the way to a new company that turned out to be much larger and much more profitable.
T: What could I / should I / close down to create the right amount of time to focus on my new company, EventDay?
A: I closed down KBAlertz, EasySearch, and sold CloudDB. This left me with 100% time to focus on EventDay, a new event ticketing platform to compete with EventBrite and Cvent.
R: EventDay lasted seven years until I sold my interest, my home, and started traveling the world to “world school” our kids with my wife. This only lasted one year, when I was recruited by Scott Guthrie to reboot Microsoft’s Cloud Advocacy group.
Learning: Focus in important. Career growth is important.
1	Now tell me about a time you took a big risk and it failed. What did you learn? What would you do differently?
S: In 2007 I invented a new cloud database. Keep the calendar in mind here, 2007 was well before Amazon, Microsoft, and Google had cloud offerings. Self hosting, or hosting providers with virtual machines were still the common way to host an application or website. T: I invested my own finances into a large development team, and we build what would be later sold to Microsoft a product named CloudDB.com ( short for Cloud Database ). A: After 4 years of building a product, we had only recreational and community projects. We could not convince any companies to "give" their data to an external party. We were about 5-6 years too early. Amazon release DynamoDB in 2012. R: My biggest mistake here was using my own funding for this project. Had I taken investment capital this project might have succeeded with additional partnerships and execution. With my own funds I was handcuffed with expansion and execution.
 
Second Source Questions:
1	Tell me about a time when you encouraged a team member or organization to take a big risk. How did you balance the risk against existing business goals? What was the outcome? What did you learn from this situation?
S: I have a team member that was starting a new Show on Learn TV. I encouraged them to participate as a producer only. This individual is very much used to be a super star on camera, so this is not in their existing plans.
T: How could this show grow internationally, with many audiences, and presenters around the globe? What about student deliveries?
A: In the last few quarters, this show has grown tremendously with customers around the global, delivered in many different languages, and the employee has since been promoted to Principal with the scalable thinking.
R: Instead of building one show that is great, create a blueprint and be the exec producer of many shows that follow the same blueprint. This has been a phenomenal project to watch grow under my leadership (but importantly, without my execution).
Learning: Thing Big, Start Big, Go Bigger. This singular show is now THE MOST popular show across Microsoft Worldwide.
1	Tell me about a time when you established a vision for a team when there wasn't one. How did you gain buy-in and drive execution? What was the outcome?
S: I am often creating the vision for new projects. I was one of the founding members of the Cloud Advocacy program inside Microsoft that grew from 3 to 100+ team members.
T: As an entrepreneur, this vision is the written form of a sales presentation for many to read and get on board the project, without 1:1 interactions. Though these often lead to important 1:1 interactions
A: A vision doc explains the WHY, not the HOW. WHY is this a good idea? Why will customers agree? Why does it matter? Only after the WHY is defined and described, will the How become relevant.
1	Tell me about a time when you took a calculated risk in order to achieve a big  professional goal. What were the tradeoffs? What was the outcome?
S: I am an inventor and I have a passion to learn new things. The best way for me to learn is to commit to a huge delivery on the topic. Maybe this is delivering a presentation on the topic to others that are also new. T: If I want to learning something new, what commitment can I create where I am accountable to others?
A: If I can't find a commitment, maybe it's not something others are interested in, it's a good check/balance for me to ask myself if the risk is worth it. R: This interview, right now, is a calculated risk to achieve a great career goal.
